# Reinforcement Learning

In the previous chapter, we taught our small model to follow the format expected by our game (`"<think>...</think><move>...</move>"`). While training worked, the model is still far from perfection.

Time to use our environment for making a small model master Tic Tac Toe via Reinforcement Learning.

Verifiers supports various training backends including PRIME-RL (framework for large-scale async reinforcement learning) and the minimal `vf.RLTrainer`, a minimal simplified version of PRIME-RL.

*In this chapter, we use `vf.RLTrainer` as in my experiments, but I recommend PRIME-RL for better performance and more full-fledged
features. Switching should be easy.*

Speaking of RL algorithms, `RLTrainer` uses async CISPO with one-step off-policy overlap. Before diving into training,
let's do a recap of how these algorithms work.

## GRPO/CISPO recap

<!--TODO: add image found online or inspired to https://github.com/Liquid4All/cookbook/blob/main/examples/browser-control/README.md#2-the-rl-algorithm---grpo-->

To get a feel for the process, let's quickly recap how Group Relative Policy Optimization works in a multi-turn game like this.
We'll consider the case of Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards, where we have a deterministic function (not another model) to compute rewards.

1. Starting from the same initial board, the model plays several games via LLM sampling.
2. Each rollout is evaluated using deterministic reward functions (win, format, invalid moves).
3. An average score is calculated across the group of rollouts.
4. Each rollout is then compared against this average.
5. The model is updated to favor trajectories that did better than the group baseline.

For a deeper explanation of GRPO, check out the [Hugging Face LLM course](https://huggingface.co/learn/llm-course/en/chapter12/3).

CISPO, used in `RLTrainer`, is a refinement of GRPO, introduced in the [MiniMax-M1 paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13585). Unlike GRPO, which clips large policy ratios and may suppress learning from rare but critical tokens, CISPO (Clipped IS-weight Policy Optimization) clips importance weights instead, preserving these learning signals and improving training efficiency.

## `vf.RLTrainer` configuration

`vf.RLTrainer` requires preparing a TOML configuration file for training setup.

Below, I report the main parts of the configuration file I used. The full version is published [here](../training_configs/vfrltrainer_rl1.toml).

```toml
model = "anakin87/LFM2-2.6B-ttt-sft"

[env]
id = "anakin87/tictactoe"

[env.args]
min_random_move_prob = 0.2
max_random_move_prob = 0.7
max_turns = 7
num_examples = 19200
num_groups = 32

[inference]
gpus = 1

[inference.args]
enforce_eager = true

[trainer]
gpus = 1

[trainer.args]
run_name = "tictactoe"
use_liger = false

# Batch configuration
micro_batch_size = 8
rollouts_per_example = 8
batch_size = 256

max_tokens = 128
max_seq_len = 768  # Sequence length: max tokens for full conversation (prompt + all turns)

max_steps = 600

learning_rate = 5e-5

# Hub configuration
push_to_hub = true
hub_model_id = "YOUR-MODEL-ID"
hub_strategy = "every_save"
save_strategy = "steps"
save_steps = 5
save_total_limit = 1
```

The [Verifiers docs](https://docs.primeintellect.ai/verifiers/training) offers a good guide to the training configurations. Here, I'll comment on the most relevant parts.

- In `[env.args]`, we specify how the environment is instantiated during training.

  - We set `min_random_move_prob = 0.2` and `max_random_move_prob = 0.7`: this makes sure that the model faces opponents
where the probability of making a random move varies from 20% to 70%. No purely random players and no random players:
a good playground to get signal and make it learn both attack and defense.

  - `num_groups` is set to `batch_size // rollouts_per_example`. See the section below for discussion of thse parameters.

- In `[trainer.args]`, we set `use_liger = false`. By default, Verifiers use Liger Kernel for training optimization but
  Liquid models have special architecture and are not supported by this library.

- We also set several parameters related to Hugging Face Hub configuration. While not documented, the RL trainer configuration inherits from [`transformers.TrainingArguments`](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.57.3/en/main_classes/trainer#transformers.TrainingArguments), which allows fine-grained control over model publishing and saving frequency.