# What we have learned and the future

## Our journey so far

Let's recap our journey on Reinforcement Learning Environments so far.

In chapter 1, we started by introducing classical Reinforcement Learning concepts (Agent, Environment) and seeing how to map them
into the Language Models domain.

In chapter 2, we introduced Verifiers, an open source library to build RL environments as software artifacts, and saw
examples of single-turn and multi-turn environments.

In chapter 3, things got real. We developed a RL environment to evaluate and train our Language Models on Tic Tac Toe.
We started simple and then refined an environment that was robust enough for effective RL training.

In chapter 4, we used the Tic Tac Toe environment to evaluate `openai/gpt-5-mini`, a good proprietary model and `LiquidAI/LFM2-2.6B`,
a small but skilled open model. We noticed a significant capability gap we wanted to close using RL.

Realizing that part of this gap derived from the small model's inability to properly follow our required format, we decided to do a short Supervised Fine-Tuning run. In chapter 5, we performed syntethic data generation, using the Tic Tac Toe environment to sample 200 games with `openai/gpt-5-mini`.

In chapter 6, we used this data to perform SFT using PRIME-RL and got a model that followed the format well. 
It was not yet a decent player, but the stage was set for Reinforcement Learning.

In chapter 7, we did a quick recap of GRPO (and CISPO), a very popular algorithm for RL on Language Models and finally RL-tuned
our model using Verifiers' RLTrainer. We discussed the most important parameters to set to ensure stable training and optimize GPU memory usage. At this point, the trained model was competent but not perfect. We weren't done yet.

In chapter 8, we tried to squeeze the last drops of performance out of RL training.By training against harder opponents and increasing the temperature to force exploration, the model reached mastery and even beat `openai/gpt-5-mini`!

In chapter 9, I went over the failed experiments I experienced during the process of making our model learn Tic Tac Toe,
hopefully sharing something useful for your own runs.

During this course, I hope you have found RL environments and the concept of RL training as fascinating as I do: we are not teaching by example, but letting LLMs wander and play, and then rewarding them. Nowadays, Reinforcement Learning is complementary to Supervised Fine-Tuning in Language Model post-training. You can also use it at home to train small, specialized models that can beat large proprietary models on specific tasks, at a fraction of the cost.

## What's next?

While this is the end of the course (at least for now), you can keep autonomously exploring this domain.

- To get more solid foundations, start from the resources suggested in chapter 1.
- To figure out what environments people build, go to the [Environments Hub](https://app.primeintellect.ai/dashboard/environments) and
start exploring. A while ago, I also wrote an [article](https://huggingface.co/blog/anakin87/environments-hub) introducing this community place for sharing environments. (Some parts of the article might not be up-to-date).
- It's also worth taking a look at [OpenEnv](https://meta-pytorch.org/OpenEnv), another framework to build RL Environments
  for LLMs, supported by Meta and Hugging Face.
- **And what to build next?** Something I'm very excited about is this: train a small Language Models on 2-3 tools you often
use and try to beat a large proprietary model in that specific task. One recommended resource to look at is the [Wiki Search example](https://github.com/PrimeIntellect-ai/prime-rl/tree/main/examples/wiki_search) in the PRIME-RL repository.

<!--maybe a sort conclusive sentence-->
